Adding new Intel oneAPI documentation (#2233)
conan-io/docs: reference/conanfile/tools/intel.rst

.. _conan_tools_intel:

conan.tools.intel
===================

This tool helps you to manage the new Intel oneAPI `DPC++/C++ <https://software.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/oneapi-dpcpp-cpp-compiler-dev-guide-and-reference/top.html>`_ and
`Classic <https://software.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/cpp-compiler-developer-guide-and-reference/top.html>`_ ecosystem in Conan.

.. warning::

    These tools are **experimental** and subject to breaking changes.

.. warning::

    macOS* is not supported for the Intel oneAPI DPC++/C++ (icx/icpx or dpcpp) compilers. For macOS or Xcode* support, you'll have to use the Intel C++ Classic Compiler.

IntelCC
=========

Available since: `1.41.0 <https://github.com/conan-io/conan/releases>`_

.. note::

    Remember, you need to have installed previously the `Intel oneAPI software <https://software.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/tools/oneapi/all-toolkits.html#gs.cgeofk>`_.

> This tool brings the mechanism to load the Intel oneAPI environment variables loaded by the Intel script ``setvars.sh|bat`` and use the different compilers internally in your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This generator creates a ``conanintelsetvars.sh|bat`` wrapping the Intel script ``setvars.sh|bat`` that set the Intel oneAPI environment variables needed.
```

> project. That script is the first step to start using the Intel compilers because it's setting some important variables in your local environment.
> Basically, what ``IntelCC`` is doing internally:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That script is the first step to start using the Intel compilers because it's setting some important variables in your local environment.
The``IntelCC`` generator:
```

> #. Reading your profile ``[settings]`` and ``[conf]``.
> #. Using that information to generate a ``conanintelsetvars.sh|bat`` script with the command to load the Intel ``setvars.sh|bat`` script.
> #. Then, you or the chosen generator will be able to run that script and use any Intel compiler to compile the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Reads your profile ``[settings]`` and ``[conf]``.
#. Use that information to generate a ``conanintelsetvars.sh|bat`` script with the command to load the Intel ``setvars.sh|bat`` script.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can launch the `conanintelsetvars.sh|bat`` before calling your intel compiler to build a project. Also, Conan will automatically call it in the conanfile ``build(self)`` method when running any command with `self.run` 
```

Is my comment accurate? is it using the `auto_activate` right?

Author: Yes, it's accurate 😉

At first, ensure you are using a *profile* like this one:

.. code-block:: text
    :caption: intelprofile

    [settings]
    ...
    compiler=intel-cc
    compiler.mode=dpcpp
    compiler.version=2021.3
    compiler.libcxx=libstdc++
    build_type=Release
    [options]

    [build_requires]
    [env]
    CC=dpcpp
    CXX=dpcpp

    [conf]
    tools.intel:installation_path=/opt/intel/oneapi

Then, you can invoke the environment variables generation from your ``conanfile.py` as follows:

.. code-block:: python
    :caption: conanfile.py

    from conans import ConanFile
    from conan.tools.intel import IntelCC

    class App(ConanFile):
        settings = "os", "arch", "compiler", "build_type"

        def generate(self):
            intelcc = IntelCC(self)
            print(intelcc.installation_path)
            print(intelcc.command)
            intelcc.generate()

Now, running a simple ``conan install . -pr intelprofile`` will generate the ``conanintelsetvars.sh|bat`` script which will run the
Intel *setvars* script and load all the variables into your local environment.

Custom configurations
----------------------

> Basically, you can apply different installation paths and command arguments simply changing the ``[conf]`` entries. For instance:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can apply different installation paths and command arguments simply by changing the ``[conf]`` entries. For instance:
```

.. note::

    You can launch the ``conanintelsetvars.sh|bat`` before calling your intel compiler to build a project.
    Also, Conan will automatically call it in the conanfile ``build(self)`` method when running any command with ``self.run``.

At first, ensure you are using a *profile* like this one:

.. code-block:: text
    :caption: intelprofile

    [settings]
    ...
    compiler=intel-cc
    compiler.mode=dpcpp
    compiler.version=2021.3
    compiler.libcxx=libstdc++
    build_type=Release
    [options]

    [build_requires]
    [env]
    CC=dpcpp
    CXX=dpcpp

    [conf]
    tools.intel:installation_path=/opt/intel/oneapi

You can invoke the environment variables generation from your ``conanfile.py`` as follows:

.. code-block:: python
    :caption: conanfile.py

    from conans import ConanFile
    from conan.tools.intel import IntelCC

    class App(ConanFile):
        settings = "os", "arch", "compiler", "build_type"

        def generate(self):
            intelcc = IntelCC(self)
            print(intelcc.installation_path)
            print(intelcc.command)
            intelcc.generate()

> Now, running a simple ``conan install . -pr intelprofile`` will generate the ``conanintelsetvars.sh|bat`` script which will run the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, running a simple :command:`conan install . -pr intelprofile` will generate the ``conanintelsetvars.sh|bat`` script which will run the
```

.. _conan_tools_intel:

conan.tools.intel
===================

IntelCC
=========

Available since: `1.41.0 <https://github.com/conan-io/conan/releases>`_

This tool helps you to manage the new Intel oneAPI `DPC++/C++ <https://software.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/oneapi-dpcpp-cpp-compiler-dev-guide-and-reference/top.html>`_ and
`Classic <https://software.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/cpp-compiler-developer-guide-and-reference/top.html>`_ ecosystem in Conan.

.. warning::

    This generator is **experimental** and subject to breaking changes.

.. warning::

    macOS is not supported for the Intel oneAPI DPC++/C++ (icx/icpx or dpcpp) compilers. For macOS or Xcode support, you'll have to use the Intel C++ Classic Compiler.

.. note::

    Remember, you need to have installed previously the `Intel oneAPI software <https://software.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/tools/oneapi/all-toolkits.html#gs.cgeofk>`_.

> 

Reviewer: Add a note here about the `CMakeToolchain` and `MSBuildToolchain`, if the user is using any of those, it is not needed to use this tool.
